>> WHAT HAVE WASN'T YOU DONE,
WHAT STRIKES ME ABOUT YOU, YOU
WERE ONE OF FIRST.
INLY TECHIALS TO SUPPORT DONALD
TRUMP.
YOU IN YOUR WRITINGS, IT WAS
GRADUAL, BUT, WHY WAS THAT?
WE HAD NOT SEEN A RIGOROUS PUSH
BACK.
WE DEPLORED HIS TACTICS.
BUT AT THE TIME HE TOOK A PART
THE CONTRADICTTION.
WE WERE LOSING WITH BOB DOLE,
AND McCAIN AND ROMNEY 46,
FRENCH, 43, EVEN AS WE DID WELL.
ON THE CONSERVATIVE SIDE.
SO, TRUMP SEEMED TO BE ONLY ONE
THAT WAS UNCONCERNED WITH WHAT
THE ESTABLISHMENT.
BY THAT NOT VAGUE, WHAT
UNIVERSITY PROFESSOR SAID.
HE SPOKE TO THE PEOPLE IN A WAY
THAT WAS REFRESHING.
OTHER STRANGE THING.
HE DIDN'T BUY INTO THE NEW
DEMOGRAPH, THERE ARE 6 TO 8
MILLION PEOPLE, WISCONSIN.
NORTH CAROLINA.
MICHIGAN, OHIO.
PENNSYLVANIA.
THAT EITHER DONE VOTE
REPUBLICAN, OR THEY DONE VOTE AT
ALL, I CAN WIN THEM BACK WITH
NATIONALIST.
STRONG JOB.
I LIKE THE DEPLORABLE MESSAGE,
PEOPLE THOUGHT THAT WAS CRAZY.
I THOUGHT HE WAS JUST, IT WAS A
LITTLE BIT DANGEROUS, I THOUGHT,
I THOUGHT HE WAS, AT THIS POINT,
WE'RE IN A POINT OF NO RETURN.
>> A POINT OF NO RETURN.
YOU SAID EXISTENTIAL THREAT,
WHAT DO YOU MEAN?
>> WELL, I MEAN IF WE'RE SAY
WE'RE THE TYPICAL CONSERVATIVE
AMERICA, YOU AND I AM 65 MILLION
THAT VOTE FOR TRUMP.
WE HAVE THE NFL, NBA, SILICON
VALLEY, APPLE, GOOGLE, FACEBOOK,
ROCKEFELLER, THE BROOKINGS
INSTITUTION, WE HAVE CABLE TV
THE MAJOR NETWORKS, WE HAVE NPR,
PBS, AND PROGRESSIVE CULTURAL
MOVEMENT.
MARK: ACADEMIA.
>> WE'RE SURROUNDED.
WE THINK THAT THESE INSTITUTIONS
DON'T HAVE AS MUCH CLOUT AS THEY
HAVE, THEN WE GET SHOCKED EVERY
4 YEARS THAT MESSAGE SURROUNDED
US, WE DON'T HAVE A MECHANISM
FOR BREAKING THROUGH TO THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE, GETTING A
MESSAGE, THE IRONY THAT MESSAGE
OF FREE MARKET CAPITALISM,
LIMITED GOVERNMENT IS WHAT THEY
THREE THRIVE ON -- THRIVE FOR.
THE CIRCULAR OCTOPUS, WHATEVER
YOU WANT TO CALL IT, WE DON'T
GET -- WE YOU AND I,
CONSERVATIVES, TRADITIONALS, WE
HAVE SAFE SPACES, IF I COULD USE
THEIR WORD, WE RETREAT TO, FOR
THEM IT IS 24/7 RELENTLESS
ENTERTAINMENT, EDUCATION,
POLITICS, MEDIA, THIS IS
OVERWHELMING.
MARK: DO YOU THINK IN
PROGRESSIVES, YOU KNOW, THEY
WROTE ABOUT THIS, THEY BASICALLY
NEEDED TO DEVOUR SOCIETY, ALL
MAYOR
MAJOR INSTITUTIONS, DO YOU THINK
THEY HAVE SUCCEEDED?
>> I DO, IF YOU TOMORROW, MARK
LEVIN GO TO STANFORD, YOU GIVE A
LECTURE ON GLOBAL WARMING, I
DON'T THINK YOU WILL BE ABLE TO
FINISH IT WOULD BEING
INTERRUPTED.
IF I GO TO STANFORD OR HARVARD,
YALE, GIVE A LECTURE ON VALUE OF
IN-- I WOULD NOT BE ABLE TO
FINISH.
I THINK IF I TOUGH
I THINK IF T TOUGH
I THINK IF TOUOUGH
I THINK IF TOUCHGH
I THINK IF TOUCH SOMEONE ON A
SHOULDER, THEY FILE ADD SEXUAL
HARASSMENT SUIT AT ME, I WILL
NOT BE GETTING DUE PROCESS, THAT
IS THE SOCIAL CHAOS WE LIVE IN.
IN.
I AM TALKING ABOUT REFINED
SOCIETY.
I DON'T THINK DUE PROCESS, FREE
SPEECH, REDRESS OF GRIEVANCES,
EXIST IN AMERICAN LIFE.
MARK: YOU HAVE ALREADY -- YOU
ARE SAYING, YOU HAVE SEEN, I
AGREE, FUNDAMENTAL
TRANSFORMATION OF AMERICA
GRADUALLY?
IS IT PICKING UP SPEED NOW?
>> I THINK IT IS, I DON'T WANT
TO BE PESSIMISTIC IN A SENSE, I
ADMIRE YOU, AND PEOPLE AT FOX
NEWS, SOME OF THE REPUBLICAN
PARTY, REALLY BRAVE VOICES,
THERE ARE IN ACADEMIA SAYING,
I'M GOING TO SPEAK OUT
REGARDLESS OF THE CONSEQUENCES.
ROMANS AND GREEKS BELIEVE THAT
PLUCKS LUXURY AV
PLUCKS LUXURY -V
PLUCKS LUXURY -- SO SOMEONE FROM
INNER-CITY COULD HAVE AN
IPHONE WITH MORE COMPUTING
POWER THAN 6 IBM MAINFRAMES.
I THINK THAT IS GREAT.
BUT WE DON'T GET WITH IT IS SOME
COLLECTIVE GRATITUDE OR SENSE OF
ACCOMPLISHMENT.
WE GET THAT KEYIA -- KIA IS NOT
AS GOOD AS TODAY'S LEXUS, I
DON'T LIKE THE LACK OF GRATITUDE
OR TRASHING OF THE SYSTEM OR OR
ANCESTORS THAT GAVE US THE
SYSTEM.
MAYBE THE UNIVERSITY CREATED AN
ARROGANT, IGNORANT COD
ARROGANT, IGNORANT OOD
ARROGANT, IGNORANT OFD
ARROGANT, IGNORANT OF YOUTH BUT
SOMETHING HAS GONE WRONG.
MARK: FREEDOM IS A TREMENDOUS
THING, BUT THIS GIVES
OPPORTUNITY FOR VERY EVIL PEOPLE
TO USE FREEDOM TO DESTROY
FREEDOM, IS THAT WHAT THE
FRAMERS OF THE CONSTITUTION WERE
TRYING TO PREVENT.
THEY INVESTIGATE THIS -- CREATE
THIS REPUBLIC, THERE IS A
CONSTANT ATTACK AT THE
PRINCIPLES OF THE REPUBLIC.
PRESIDENT WINS THE ELECT
PRESIDENT WINS THE ECOCT
PRESIDENT WINS THE ECONOMY THAT
I WANT TO GET RID OF IT, THEY
WANT TO GET RID OF OTHER ASPECTS
SEPARATION OF POWERS, THEY KEEP
BUILDING UP A FOURTH BRANCH, AN
ADMINSTRAIF
ADMINITRAIF
ADMINISTAIF
ADMINISTRAF
ADMINISTRATIVE BRANCH OF
GOVERNMENT, THAT IS WHAT THEY
DO.
>> I THINK THEY UNDERSTAND WHAT
THE FRAMERS WERE UP TO, THEIR
MODEL IS NOT A CONSTITUTION
RALLY
COLLY
CONSY
CONSTITUTIONALREALM.
THIS IS RADICAL DEMOCRACY TO ANY
GIVEN DAY, 51% OF POPULATION
DECIDE THE LAW, THERE IS NO
CONSTITUTIONAL PROTECTION, YOU
TOP KILL SOCK RAHTIES ON SUNDAY
OR YOU CAN DO IT IT HAS BEEN
STEADY, WE WENT FROM PROPERTY
QUALIFICATIONS, MODERATE
PROPERTY TO DIRECT ELECTION OF
SENATORS, THERE WERE ARGUMENTS
FOR THIS NOW IT IS ABOLISHES THE
ELECTORAL COLLEGE, AND ENLARGES
SUPREME COURT, PACKING IT, AND
ENLARGES HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES, MAYBE A
THOUSAND MEMBERS, WHY PEOPLE IN
CALIFORNIA SAY WHY DOES WYOMING
GET 250,000 PEOPLE GET ONE
SENATOR, WE 20 MILLION GET ONE,
LET'S TURN THE SENATE TO HOUSE,
THE LONG-TERM PROJECTRY
GOVERNMENT MANDATED.
THEY GOT WHAT THEY WANTED WITH
CIVIL RIGHT.
WE HAD TRUE EQUALITY OF
OPPORTUNITY, THEN, THEY WERE
EXPECTING THAT EVERYONE WOULD BE
EQUAL, HUMAN NATURE BEING WHAT
IT IS, IT IS NEVER GOING TO BE
THAT WAY.
CONSERVATIVE POSITION IS, WE'RE
NOT EQUAL BUT POOREST PERSON
WILL HAVE A GOOD LIFE.
IF HE IS IN A FREE MARKET
ECONOMY AND A CONSTITUTIONAL
SYSTEM.
BUT THEY SAY, NO, NO.
WE DON'T REALLY CARE WHAT
POVERTY OR WEALTH CIRCUMSTANCE
WE WANT
-- WANT
-- IANT
-- IS T
-- IS WE WANT EVERYONE TO BE
EQUAL WE WANT EVERYONE MAKING
20,000 A YEAR, AND POOR MAKING
50 AND SOMEONE MAKING A MILLION.
MARK: EQUALITY IS THROWN AROUND
ALL OF THE TIME, WE KNOW WHAT
FOUNDERS MEANT.
OF JUSTICE.
THEY DONE MEAN EQUALITY OF
ECONOMICS, THAT WOULD BE ABSURD,
IT IS IMPOSSIBLE.
HUMAN BEINGS, WE PRIDE OURSELVES
OWRK
UNRK
UNIQUE HUMAN BEINGS AND
INDIVIDUALED, CREATED BY GOD,
ONE DIFFERENT FROM THE OTHER,
BUT IN CIVIL SOCIETY WE ARGUE
THAT THE LAW IS THE LAW,
EVERYONE SHOULD BE TREATED AS
BEST AS WE CAN EQUALLY IN FRONT
OF A COURT, IN FRONT OF THE LAW.
BUT THIS NOTION OF RADICAL.
REALLY IS A EUROPEAN IMPORT.
WHICH IS ALIEN TO OUR FOUNDERS.
>> IT IS.
IT HAS SOME PRECEDENCE IN
ANCIENT WORLD.
ARISTOTLE A CRITIC OF THIS, HE
ASSUMES HE CAN BE EQUAL IN EVERY
OTHER ASPECT, PLATO SAID THAT
PROJECTRY OF DONKEYS AND DOGS IN
ATHENS HAVE TO VOTE.
BUT, YOU ARE RIGHT, IT TAKES UP
SPEED, IT BIFURCATES, WE THOUGHT
WE WERE SAFE, ANGLO-SCOTTISH
TRADITION WAS MORE.
AND EUROPEAN MODEL IS ONE THAT
PROGRESSIVES CHOOSE.
WE'RE BORN TO CHAINS, THAT
CHURCH, COMMUNITY, FAMILY, DUTY
OF GOVERNMENT TO TAKE OFF THOSE
CHAINS, AND LET EVERYONE BE
LIBERATE, AND THEN WE'LL BE
HAPPY.
WHICH IS OUR COLLECT OF COLLECTV
WHICH IS OUR COLLECT OF COLLECTE
NIGHTMARE.
WE'RE HEADED TO A RADICAL
SOCIETY, AND ASPECTS THAT
TRANSCEND POLITICS.
MARK: ADVANCE THIS NOTION, OF
POPULISM.
WHEN THIS IS AUTHORITARIANISM,
PEOPLE BELIEVE THEY HAVE
DEMOCKTIZE SOME PROGRAM, SOME
ISSUE, WHEN IT IS NOT
DEMOCRATIZED AT ALL.
THEY ARE NOT INTELLECTUAL
ELITES, THEY LIKE TO THINK THEY
ARE, WHO ARE THEY?
WHY ARE THEY ELITES?
BECAUSE THEY ARE ELECTED?
THEY ARE MEMBERS OF UNION?
I NEVER UNDERSTOOD WHY THEY ARE
SO ELITE?
>> THEY THINK THEY WENT TO A
PARTICULAR -- BRANDED LIKE
CATTLE, THEY THINK THAT IVY
LEAGUE BRAND WILL ALLOW CERTAIN
PRIVILEGES.
BUT YOU LOOK AT SILICON VALLEY,
WITH A GATE KEEPER THAT DECIDE
WHAT IS HATE SPEECH, WHAT IS
NOT, THEY CONTROL THE
EXPRESSIONS OF 7 BILLION PEOPLE
ON THE PLANET, BECAUSE THEY ARE
MORALLY BETTER THAN WE ARE, YOU
TURN ON PUBLIC TV OR CABLE TV
YOU GET ANGUISH ABOUT THESE
PEOPLE ARE YOU KNOW THE DEPLORE
DEPLORABLES, THE CLINGERS, I
THINK THEY USE WORD EAST
GERMANS, I HEARD THAT SAID, I
THINK THAT JOHN McCAIN CALLED
THEM WACKO BIRDS, THERE WAS A
REAL CONTEMPT FOR PEOPLE THEY
DON'T FEEL THAT PROPERLY KNOW
HOW TO USE THEIR FREEDOM, AND
THEIR ECONOMIC CLOUT, THEY TOO
SPHEUP
STHEUP
STUPUP
STUPID STUFF, THEY BUY JET SKIS,
THEY GO SNOW MOBILING AND THEY
POLLUTE THE UNIVERSE.
THEY CAN SAY, YOU KNOW WE'RE
DOING IT FOR YOU.
AND THROUGH OUT HISTORY, WE HAVE
SEEN THESE PEOPLE, THEY HAVE ONE
THING IN COMMON, THEY ARE ALL
EXCUSED OR NOT SUBJECT TO THE
RAMIFICATIONS OF THEIR OWN
IDEOLOGY.
MARK: I WANT TO ASK BUT
RAMIFICATIONS.
YOUR INSIGHT INTO THIS ELECTION
THAT JUST OCCURRED.
WHAT YOU THINK OF THE RESULT,
AND WHY YOU THINK WE GOT THE
RESULT WE DID.
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN, ALMOST
EVERY WEEK NIGHT YOU CAN WATCH